facts on Natural and Whole Numbers:

• The smallest natural number is 1.
• The smallest whole number is 0.
• Every number has a successor. The number that comes just after the given number
is its successor.
• Every number has a predecessor. The number 1 has a predecessor in W namely ‘0’,
but it has no predecessor in N. The number ‘0’ has no predecessor in W.
• There is an order to numbers. By comparing the two given numbers the larger of the
two can be identified.
• Numbers are endless. By adding 1 to any chosen large number, the next number
can be found.

properties os whole numbers:

Commutativity of addition and multiplication:
When several numbers are added, the order in which the numbers are added does not
matter. This is called associativity of addition. Similarly, when several numbers are to be
multiplied, the order in which the numbers are multiplied does not matter. This is called
associativity of multiplication.

Associativity of addition and multiplication:
When several numbers are added, the order in which the numbers are added does not
matter. This is called associativity of addition. Similarly, when several numbers are to be
multiplied, the order in which the numbers are multiplied does not matter. This is called
associativity of multiplication.

Distributivity of multiplication over addition or subtraction:
It can be noted that the product of a number and a sum of numbers can be written as the
sum of two products. Similarly, the product of a number and a number got by subtraction
can be written as the difference of two products.
18 × 6 = (10 + 8) × 6
It is to be noted that addition does not distribute over multiplication.
For example,
10 + (10 × 5) = 60 and (10 + 10) × (10 + 5) = 300 are not equal.

Identity for addition and multiplication:
When zero is added to any number, we get the same number. Similarly, when we multiply
any number by 1, we get the same number. So, zero is called the additive identity and one
is called the multiplicative identity for whole numbers.
